Hello.
2 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Thank you.
3 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Hello.
4 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
1.
5 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
It's part of the electronic.
6 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Start from.
7 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Writing no, no, not not.
8 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The last 2.
9 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Hello.
10 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Take care.
11 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Hello.
12 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
13 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Hello.
14 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Good morning. Oh, cool. Everyone is good.
15 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Here, let's do it.
16 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we will, we will start with our lecture 5, and I hope to.
17 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Earlier, so that we have some.
18 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Um, some time to revise for the.
19 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
With the exact midterm exam will start on.
20 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
10 3010 30.
21 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In today's lecture facts, we are going to learn superposition.
22 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And equivalence and.
23 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
What does the superposition States?
24 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
It states that the current through or voltage across any element of a network is equal.
25 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To the algebraic, some of the currents of voltages produce.
26 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Independently by.
27 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we have, um.
28 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Have you guys have seen, uh, you have seen in the past 5 weeks?
29 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
There are several more than 1 method to solve, uh, 2nd, problems.
30 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, in this situation, we are going to learn another method, which is called Super position.
31 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, in, uh.
32 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You can see in this circuit here.
33 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We have to resist us what voltage sauce and 1 current sauce. Okay.
34 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
1 current source, so from the name.
35 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The support position means we focus.
36 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
On 1 source, we remove the other sauce.
37 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We do whatever it is required.
38 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And that we focus on the other source.
39 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We remove, uh, the other 1 and we do whatever and then.
40 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
At the end, we add both of them together so that is that's why it's called superposition.
41 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, if we have here, we have 2 sources.
42 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I work at sauce and sauce, so.
43 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The strategy is when you.
44 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
When you want to focus on the current source.
45 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Therefore, you must remove the voltage sauce.
46 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Be moving removing the voltage sauce means.
47 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Replacing the voltage sauce with, uh, short circuit.
48 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
A straight line if we want to focus on the voltage sauce.
49 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We will remove the current source.
50 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And by removing the current sauce, we are replacing the current sauce with an open circuit.
51 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, why why what is the strategy means? This means we.
52 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
When we remove, uh, 1 of the sauce.
53 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Now, we can do whatever like calculations.
54 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Um, for example, voltage current and so forth, and we take note of the answer.
55 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And we now focus on the other source, which is current source.
56 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And we remove the voltage sauce.
57 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Plus by removing devoted sauce, we are replacing it with.
58 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
A short circuit, which means a simple 1.
59 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Simple wire there at the end.
60 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
After we do, uh, our operations.
61 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We get the results and, uh, for this case, we do our calculations and operations. We get the results.
62 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And that we add superposition means we add, uh, this results.
63 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To do these results to get.
64 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To get the final correct answer.
65 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So that is the concept of superposition and the name is, makes it easy.
66 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To to understand the logic, because we.
67 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We act, uh, both results together. That's why it is called Super position.
68 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
It's best to to look at some examples.
69 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, the theory of superposition means that.
70 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
If we have if you want to remove.
71 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
What takes us we are going to replace it with a short 2nd.
72 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
If we are going to remove current sauce.
73 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We are going we are going to replace it with an open a 2nd.
74 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
With an open 2nd, so let's look at 1 example of superposition. So, as, you know.
75 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Um, we were asked to find Karen, I, to.
76 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So this is I do in this branch.
77 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In this branch in this, uh, in this branch.
78 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, I know that there are several ways to solve it.
79 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Is using maybe you want to convert.
80 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The work that sauce to become current sauce in parallel.
81 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So that parallel current source can be added. So that is also valued.
82 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But today we are going to learn a new technique, which is.
83 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, support position Kyoto.
84 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Superposition to Europe. So superposition States the 1st step is.
85 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To focus on 1 source and remove the other source.
86 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The next step is to focus on.
87 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Current sauce and remove the voltage. So so now we are doing this.
88 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, now we start this position. 0, so we are now focusing on, uh, what the sauce and removing the current sauce.
89 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, when we focus on the.
90 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, the theory states that when we removed the current.
91 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We replace it with an open. 2nd.
92 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we, we, we, we, we replace it with open a 2nd, so I just.
93 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Go back to the theory. So re, replace all any current process with open circuits.
94 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We've open seconds. No. So now this is open.
95 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And so.
96 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We, we will ask originally to find, uh, I do.
97 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, i2 is here, so it looks like.
98 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Let's use mesh mesh.
99 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, uh.
100 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This means, um, or you can use, um.
101 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
After you viewing this, you can observe that. This is.
102 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, simply, uh, series.
103 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
A series a resistor cause this is open circuit. So this is normal. Uh, no more relevant. So we all.
104 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You only have this with, uh, 12 homes.
105 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And 6:00:00, um.
106 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We were asked to find the I do, but we don't call I too, because I do is the final we just for.
107 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, not to confuse because we need to do the other 1 to add them together.
108 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And here, we can see it at 6 volts.
109 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, I do in series, I think you agree with me.
110 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This is a serious occur law states that.
111 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I do that. Sorry?
112 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I, I.
113 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We call it dash so not to confuse with the final answer that required a voltage.
114 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Over total resistance.
115 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we got 2 Mbps so we take note.
116 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
That by removing the current sauce.
117 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Maintaining the what the sauce.
118 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, we got 2 for the eye to eye 2 dash.
119 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, the next step is now we go back to the original.
120 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Now, we maintain the current source.
121 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And we remove the voltage source. Mm. Hmm.
122 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Now, the next step is to remove the, what results and maintain the current source.
123 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, now we are doing that, so, and the theory states, so we are now focusing on the current source.
124 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And removing the voltage sauce.
125 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Moving to market source the workday source will be replaced by, uh, or the straight wire.
126 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And that in mind, we need to find the I, to, which is.
127 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In, uh, in.
128 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This branch, so let's look.
129 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Let's look here, so we can also some, um.
130 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Some things that we can use, we can put, uh, the R1.
131 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Here the, you can put here.
132 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, is still here.
133 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I'm still here and this is.
134 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The current the current source.
135 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And the current, uh, current sauce is 9.
136 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Therefore, these 9 we flow here.
137 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And I will flow here and you can observe.
138 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You can use current divider theory, because this current will flow to this junction. It will be split.
139 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
2:2:colors, but we are more interested to find the i2. That's the.
140 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Request in the question, so.
141 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This we call it out to dash dash dash.
142 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, just to not to confuse, because I do is, I will find the answer.
143 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And I will write here 12 homes.
144 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This is 6 hours so I hope you.
145 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You still remember the special formula.
146 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
For the current divider theory.
147 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We'll get, uh, I do in this branch.
148 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, I do, but we don't try to to avoid confusion. We call.
149 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
If we look at the opposite branch.
150 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Which is 12 volts divide that.
151 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
By the total, which is 6+12.
152 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, multiply the total color, which is 9. 0.
153 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And when we do that calculation is 6.
154 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we take the to Prime.
155 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
From the previous answer, which is to.
156 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To, and, uh, I to double Prime that we just update, which is 6.
157 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And superposition Europe means.
158 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We add this 2 2+6 to get the final answer.
159 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Get the final answer so that is.
160 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The technique of Super position.
161 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, um.
162 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I understand that, uh.
163 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
There are different ways to solve the. You can also.
164 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Convert the voltage sauce and this.
165 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Register to become current source and register in parallel.
166 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And to that, uh, parallel sauce can be added together because that's the theory that we have learned.
167 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And so forth, but.
168 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This is another technique, a, another strategy, which is called the Super position.
169 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Super position, so superposition terror means.
170 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Focus each current source was that the 1st step is to focus.
171 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The, uh, what the sauce so we focus it.
172 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But we remove the current source.
173 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, the current source is removed, but we, you need to remember what the current sauce.
174 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Is removed and replaced by, uh, open 2nd.
175 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Can we do whatever is possible to find.
176 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The in this branch.
177 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In this and they are series, so no issue.
178 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
After that we take note of the answer, uh, I thought we call it to dash is 2 Mbps.
179 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Then now we, the next step, the next step is.
180 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To focus on the current sauce.
181 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And remove the voltage sauce.
182 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And do whatever permission to find I do.
183 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, this branch, but removing you must remember that removing.
184 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The voltage source will be, it will be replaced by a short circuit while.
185 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Removing the previously, removing the current sauce will be replaced by an open 2nd, removing.
186 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The voltage sauce will be replaced with a shot so good. 1. yeah.
187 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, after, uh, performing that removal.
188 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This is the next slide shows that.
189 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We are now focusing on the current source.
190 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And removing the voltage source and replacing with the short circuit strict wire.
191 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And we try to see what is available so that we can get I, to.
192 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I do rubber prime and we use a divided theory.
193 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To get it to double prime at 6.
194 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we take note of the answers both answers and then.
195 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
From the what superposition this means we act.
196 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The previous answer of Prime.
197 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
With the this answer of 6 2+6 M.
198 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Becomes it so this.
199 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Is our final answer for the to using Super position Europe using support?
200 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Is able to support position.
201 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, this is another example of superposition.
202 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we have here, uh, we have.
203 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We want to find I do, and we have here 2 voltage sources.
204 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, to what the process, no problem we can still use Super. So the 1st step is to focus.
205 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
On 1 of them and removing.
206 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, this 1, but removing this 1.
207 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Going to be replaced by, uh, both, uh, short, straight, quiet.
208 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And do whatever is possible.
209 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To find I to call it time to time.
210 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And then after that focus on the next.
211 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
After doing the patient focus on the 48.
212 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
48 volts added sauce removing.
213 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
54 current sauce and removing uh, sorry removing the 50 for both the sauce.
214 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Removing about the sauce replacing with a short circuit.
215 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Straight, so that is.
216 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The, the concept of superposition Super position.
217 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, let us move, uh, let us start with the 1st step. So we are now just focusing on the 54 votes with the sauce.
218 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And removing the.
219 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
48 volts will the sauce and replacing it with a short circuit straight Wired.
220 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
It short circuit, straight line, and we tried to.
221 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Fine, uh, I to Prime.
222 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Yeah, at the end is I too, but not to be confused.
223 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And answer, we call it I to Prime.
224 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And you can see here, this is a short circuit. Why? So, why not.
225 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In, uh, for for the best view.
226 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Why not we put we draw the for goes into here.
227 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, we draw the post it to here and we can see.
228 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This is a parallel a, this is a parallel resistance.
229 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, parallel resistance and.
230 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, when it is parallel, so let's do go back.
231 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, I will, uh, look in here.
232 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Steps as a, uh, drawing in 1 page is better to see a overall picture.
233 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Slower.
234 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, the 1st, the 1st, uh, this is our original original 2nd.
235 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we now focus on the 54 votes, uh, what the sauce and we, we.
236 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Remove the 48 W, what you saw by replacing it with.
237 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, good, why are you? Good while.
238 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, and here you can.
239 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
That is.
240 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This is just Wired, so why not? We drawing in this matter. So we can see it more. Clearly. We can see that the 12 herbs and the forms.
241 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, I don't know, right. Ah, in parallel.
242 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, they are in parallel, I hope you now.
243 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, you know, that to, to resistance in parallel, because it will also come.
244 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In the victim at 10, 30.
245 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To resist this in parallel, but of course, you should never forget.
246 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The long formula our team is 1 over.
247 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
What over our work and and so forth.
248 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But here, we can observe that 12 hours and photos.
249 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, to multiply, by, for 12+4 is equivalent to.
250 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
3, okay.
251 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, this we want to get, uh.
252 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, which is here, uh, I want.
253 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And I want, uh, we know 54 votes, you know, serious resistance, 24 and 3.
254 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We will say that I want is to.
255 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, now we can go back to do the.
256 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Previous 1, and we know that I want is to.
257 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, in the past 1 or 2 weeks, we always be the example.
258 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, if we have this look at the rights.
259 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
With all the resistance as 1 and then.
260 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Yeah, I I saw and that is going to come in the meet them as well.
261 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So this is the benefit because you cannot this 1, this 1 you come, but the concept of.
262 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The total resistance, and then to find the source.
263 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So this means when we know is to we go back to here.
264 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Now, we can use the current divider theory.
265 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
+2 Mbps we want.
266 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, I to Prime, so I hope you still remember the current.
267 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Divide the theory, because it's the current divide theory is also in the midterm exam.
268 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But we are going to practice now, the current provider theory for a special to resist the in parallel.
269 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
That's practice now also good for the midterm exam.
270 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Current divided duty, but this will not come Super position on this but.
271 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We can see that each question we need to use.
272 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
How to divide the theory? Uh.
273 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In parallel to make it a total and so forth.
274 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, it will be that, um, I will test.
275 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And as a practice for the victim exam as well.
276 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, I will show, uh, it is it, uh.
277 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Let's just pull them in the lectures for the.
278 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And you will see 1024, uh, in class quiz.
279 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, lecture 5, uh, Wednesday to 5.
280 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So.
281 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
If I click this and I will call.
282 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Wednesday, 15th of May, uh, 2024.
283 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Wednesday, 15th of May 24.
284 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, so I did not start yet.
285 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, uh, the question that we are going to ask them is.
286 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, if we have here.
287 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, if we have it, now, go, it is to it split into 2.
288 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
All right what we are interested.
289 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To use the.
290 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, which I believe you remember because this current divided theory.
291 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Will be in the midterm exam the current.
292 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And so let's start the quiz and you will have 200 seconds before. This is the 1st question.
293 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Quiz is in the lecture folder, uh, 2024 in class, uh, lecture 5.
294 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Where is the intellectual photos?
295 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And you can say, 2024.
296 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In class, please let your 5 bracket. Uh, when is the.
297 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Let's see here.
298 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We have, uh, the current provider theory to get eye to dash.
299 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I too dash.
300 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, uh, you need to.
301 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Familiarized with current theory resistance in.
302 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Mm, hmm.
303 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Huh.
304 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Um, very faster.
305 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Very fast. Okay. Now, why I will repeat the question.
306 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But, uh, thank you for telling so I will 1st.
307 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Um, why is the, uh.
308 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Close the session and start a new session. Don't worry, uh, close the session.
309 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Start a new session, and I will change the timer. Okay.
310 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The time, uh, let me check what happened to the timer.
311 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The 1st question.
312 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, 200 seconds.
313 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, 200 seconds the 1st, the 2nd question.
314 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
100 seconds, sorry for the 40 for for this, uh, on site and 100 seconds.
315 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We only have less question today because.
316 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You don't have to we just want to do to practice for the with them and that's the case.
317 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The 5th questions.
318 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
106.
319 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
six thirty pm is one hundred
320 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
It gets so.
321 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, let's start a new, a new.
322 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
A new session, so I will.
323 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Here again, uh, in class, which.
324 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Start the new session, the real, the real, the real 1.
325 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Let me see.
326 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
16 may 2024.
327 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So this new session, uh, and, uh, so now you will have 200 seconds on the 1st question.
328 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And the question is for fine, I to dash.
329 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Yes, um.
330 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, you currently Weiner theory, you should familiarize for the midterm exam exam our total.
331 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Special formula for 2:2:registers in parallel to get the, you should familiarize.
332 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, current divided theory, special formula for 2 resistance in parallel. You should also.
333 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
For the victim exam, uh, no data analytics you should familiarize for the exam.
334 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Currently what, uh, Jodi voltage divider duty.
335 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, okay, so this means, uh, I, is.
336 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
0.5Mbps so keep keep track of this result because we are going to use and the final results.
337 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, now the 2nd step is to.
338 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To focus on the 48 volts and to remove the 54 box voltage. So when we focus on the 4 tables and remove the 54 volts, what is supply and replacing by a short circuit.
339 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Why are we have this situation.
340 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we, we still want to find I, to what we call it to double Prime. So that not to confuse with the other.
341 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I to so, here we can see 24 hours we to have a better view. We draw it here.
342 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
24 hours, and here is 12 goals and here is 48 volts, but.
343 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The polarity is the opposite and here is for bones.
344 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, again, we use the same technique.
345 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This technique will need to be used in the midterm in the midterm.
346 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Of course, not superposition with copy the victim, but as a whole.
347 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Because 1st, you need to summarize all the.
348 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
All the resistance, so that you can get the.
349 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So the 24 hours and 12 OEMs are to resist this in parallel.
350 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We can use the special formula for the 2 resistance in parallel to get the.
351 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
It was as a total for owns for all 3. so now it's easy to get the.
352 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Because they, uh, these 2 resisters are in serious.
353 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And use all slow, I thought is.
354 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But, please be careful because of the polarities.
355 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, -48 volts divided by.
356 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, folks, so we have .
357 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Or empty, so take note of that to access.
358 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, this was.
359 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To prime and.
360 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, it's not your answer. Sorry? Because this is.
361 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I saw I saw, okay, then we go back to our.
362 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, I thought it's minus for.
363 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Or oh, I saw now he use back.
364 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We now we want to find I to prime and, you know, this is the total current -4 and.
365 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You use the current divider theory again so this is good practice for the midterm exam.
366 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Because there will be several divided duty.
367 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And now let us, um.
368 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Fine, I to Prime, using the current directory. What is.
369 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I do Brian. I do fine.
370 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And so with that, so that's very good.
371 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
That's a good answer. And.
372 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Previous question is very good. So now I to try I to double prime i2 number back.
373 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, I, to double fine. So currently by the theory.
374 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, I to double time, so I don't mind. I give.
375 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And the answers, so you can do. So, okay, I have to double plan.
376 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Is look at the opposite current, uh, opposite register, 24 divided by total, which is 24+12xby the total current -4 Mbps. So I, to double plan is -2.6 7 Mbps plus but not least.
377 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Um, the name itself is super position Euro so the, the results that we obtain.
378 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Well, I to Prime, this is 0.5.
379 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And I, to double plan because it is negative. So it's.
380 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In here in this direction as 267, and as a total we add them together, which is.
381 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
2.1722.6 7.
382 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
0.5but, the direction is upwards.
383 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we yes, please.
384 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Very good, uh, reservation .
385 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Because this 12 and this is 24. okay. Okay. Have to be slightly more uh.
386 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Absolutely that 12, 34.
387 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Um, so, uh, this is our.
388 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Technique or Super position.
389 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, very good and so at the end.
390 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, our final answer is I to.
391 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Because we add these 2 together, so 2.67-0.5 is 2.17and I do is in this direction.
392 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So 1 more example of using, uh.
393 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we have here 1 voltage sauce, 9 books and 1, current sauce and 6Million Mbps and we were asked to find I do.
394 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And we were asked to find so.
395 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Fine, I do using Super position 0 If in the future exam, the final exam.
396 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
If the question says, uh, find using Super position, so you need to use superposition theater. But if the question says find.
397 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, it's, uh, you are free to choose the best technique.
398 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The you are convenient with it.
399 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, here we can withdraw, uh, redraw this, uh, this 2nd.
400 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To be, uh, in this manner in this manner, but actually.
401 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
There is, uh, 9 volts here.
402 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And 9 books, but, okay, we do, we draw it, but now we go to the next step, which is.
403 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We focus on the current sauce and we.
404 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Remove the voltage SaaS 9 volts and according to the order, if you remove all the sauce, you need to replace it with, uh, short circuit wire straight.
405 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, now I'll just do this, so okay.
406 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, and our objective is to find.
407 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I too, so we right here, right to Prime.
408 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Um, so.
409 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, actually, these charts are kiddwaya.
410 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
It's actually it's just like nothing like, it's just a while so we can redraw it in this manner.
411 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Just like this and like this, so it's back, I'll draw it so that we can see a better view and not in order to solve it for too. So, in this manner, we can see.
412 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We are given in a question of 6,000,000.
413 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, it is split current is and some current at the current we will move here.
414 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, can I ask you what is the best technique to find I, to Prime.
415 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
What is the best technique to find out to Brian?
416 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Currently wider yes currently wider because I have to Prime.
417 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Look at this, uh, which is 6 divided by 6+12.
418 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And multiply by the original.
419 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
6.
420 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So that you will get tied to Prime.
421 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So you will get, let's let me do it here.
422 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, that's the 1 that's, uh, 1 in 1 pitch in 1 pitch.
423 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we, this is the next 1, are we focused on nevermind? We, that's the, the next 1.
424 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we now get a I, to Prime.
425 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, so the next, uh, the next step is.
426 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To focus on the sauce and removing the current source.
427 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So removing the current sauce, you must know the theory which states.
428 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Removing that current sauce replacing with, uh, both, uh, awkward.
429 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, when you can see here opens the.
430 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Actually, this is, uh, irrelevant. It's just like a wire.
431 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Nothing is not relevant, so at the end.
432 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You have, uh, only this.
433 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The only this, because it's, um.
434 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This is just a, uh, open secret wire. So when you have only this, you can.
435 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Rearrange it so this is, is here and why not? Um.
436 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Drawing because still 6 and 12, and at the bottom.
437 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
14 and 35 kilohertz and.
438 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Also for the wisdom in 1 hours time.
439 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Oh, well, I was you should also observe.
440 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
That, uh, if this is 9 volts.
441 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
If this is 9 books.
442 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And this to emperor, this vast bill.
443 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
9 books as well, and this 1 is in parallel to that. This also must be 9 books.
444 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we learn divide the theory. I give tips.
445 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Coming in the, uh, with them, and also.
446 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Voltage in federal they are the same yes.
447 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You see, um.
448 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, the chefs current law to get high to double point.
449 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You want to use in which area? Uh, in which.
450 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, uh, like a Mish mash, right?
451 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This is 1:1:message. Yes, you can see.
452 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Yes, I can use it. Yes.
453 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, so now we, we, but I just want to highlight if this is 9 volts.
454 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This also must be 9 works. This must be 9 books as well.
455 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Just to revise that theory that will come in the midterm, uh, in 1 and half hours time.
456 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So so if we.
457 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We throw it in this manner, but actually it's up to the students, but to make it, uh, better view. So I draw it.
458 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In this manner lab, this this vendor is top and bottom.
459 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But, uh, this vendor is.
460 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Go with this manner of drawing is, uh, left and right but they are the same, right?
461 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Yeah, the same just to whichever 1 is convenient. So I redraw it.
462 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I regret it, uh, in terms of.
463 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Left and right but there are still 9 votes and 9 volts in.
464 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And so the i2 Prime is here.
465 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, can I ask you this time? Uh, I, to.
466 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
He's using a current divider rule or.
467 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
A voltage divide to.
468 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I too, I to Frank, I too is also is voltage.
469 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Because, um, I say, so we have to be calm and.
470 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
There is 9 goals right? Change color.
471 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This means this also is.
472 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Change color this means.
473 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
These 2 point is 9 months. So if this is 9 volts.
474 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And we know 600 kilowatts and Turkey, or what will be high to plan.
475 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
What will be I to prime if we know that this is 9 volts 9 books here.
476 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, you, uh, let's try it.
477 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, it's a practice for because the now will also be asked in the midterm questions questions.
478 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The questions so will be asked, um.
479 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Resistors in parallel will not not will be asked as a single, but in a 2nd, so you need to you to know. Okay. This 1. S.
480 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This is in parallel this 1, uh, oh, because they are in parallel the voltage must be like this.
481 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This 1, you've got a divider slopped.
482 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This is also a good question for the victim.
483 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
What a victim exams that presents.
484 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So you got the right answer, which is 9 volts.
485 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Divided by that branch 6 and 12 6+12. So I to.
486 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Is, uh.
487 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The Prime is 0.5.
488 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Billy 0.5Million this now, I did the steps for the previous 1.
489 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I already did the steps, but let's, um.
490 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Let's explain again now we focus.
491 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
On the 6Million current source and we remove.
492 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
No, 9 will be.
493 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We draw it like this and you already mentioned rightly just now.
494 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I to Prime is using the current divider.
495 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, let's, uh, let's answer I to Prime, in terms of current divider.
496 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Theory, so I, I took time.
497 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, in terms of current divided theory.
498 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And, uh, you can see here, please select the the correct answer.
499 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, I, to prime to Prime, using the current divided.
500 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And from the what Super position superposition means, we.
501 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We act the final I to is I to Brian.
502 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And I, to double point 0.5.
503 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, last.
504 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To really for the prime, so in total our final answer is 2.5Million. Yes.
505 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So that is, uh, that.
506 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The technique of Super position Kyoto support position.
507 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, so if there is no question.
508 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, I would like to proceed with, uh.
509 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, let's see the answer. 1st. Mm. Hmm.
510 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
That's good. And so we have learned superposition, but now.
511 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We are going to learn, uh.
512 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The most interesting and permits the reduction of complex networks to a simple form for analysis and design.
513 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, because, uh, it's parallel, it's easy.
514 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But if it's a combination too much.
515 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Too many combinations, so it's better.
516 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To to have a technique and this technique is called.
517 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, so let's see. So, what we want to do is, uh, all the complexities.
518 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Um, for example, we have, uh, what.
519 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And then all these here.
520 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And then here many things.
521 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And then some here and so forth. So we want to.
522 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, do view some voltage across the.
523 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Certain places, so we want to simplify all of them.
524 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And this is called.
525 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And.
526 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And here, we can look at the same point and find whatever that we want.
527 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So that is, uh, it's like simplification 1st year we might have, uh.
528 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, this 1, this 1 another here.
529 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So this needs to simplify all the current work, all the sauce into 1.
530 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To simplify all the resistance into 1.
531 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
E, uh, 8, 70 and.
532 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Resistance and then we can.
533 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To whatever, uh, easily to find, for example, voltage.
534 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Across a, and B, and so forth.
535 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we want our objective here. You can see here.
536 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This is voltage source current source. Resistor 1. resistor 2.
537 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And this blue box, we want to.
538 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Summarize them to become just, uh, 1, uh, 1 voltage, which call it voltage 70 and 1 resistance. We call it resistance Stephanie.
539 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And then it's easy to solve or whatever that we want for the.
540 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
For the across, uh, a, and B.
541 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Be the point a, and B, okay.
542 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, remove that portion of the network where the is found.
543 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, this requires that the load resist our L. we temporarily remove from a network.
544 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But the terminals of the remaining 2 terminal network.
545 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So then we calculate, uh, R, W.
546 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
By setting all sources to 0, what data sources are replaced by.
547 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And the current sources, my open tickets.
548 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And then finding the result of resistance between the 2 terminals.
549 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
If the internal resistance of the voltage, and our current process is included in the original network, it must remain.
550 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
When the sauces are set to 0, and then calculate.
551 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
By returning all success to their original position and finding the open. 2nd.
552 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Voltage between the mock terminals so I think, um, and lastly a 2nd.
553 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The portion of the separate previously remove replace between the terminals on the equivalent setups.
554 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But it's better to to use an example. So I will.
555 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I will do 1 simple example and then.
556 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, develop from that from that. So here we are.
557 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, we have look, we are loads, we should not.
558 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We in the blue box, uh, how the load is removed.
559 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And then open 2nd is far. So the 1st step is to remove.
560 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, the load to get to use the, we remove, uh, the R. L. so we, when we remove the loads.
561 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This will be an open 2nd.
562 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This will be a positive, but we should not.
563 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We should be wary. We should.
564 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
No, where is AB, AB is still here it is still here.
565 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
All right, so that is the 1st step to remove the load.
566 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We have to remove that we have removed the load.
567 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, to obtain, so, at the end bear in mind that we weren't.
568 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, what page? 17, and we want.
569 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So.
570 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
After we removed the lotus now the 1st step.
571 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The next step is to find the so.
572 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The next step is, uh, all voltages will be shorter.
573 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And all of our all current process will be open. 2nd.
574 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, remember, the load is still remove the R. L. is no more there.
575 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Now, we remove the voltage source.
576 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And we replace with, uh.
577 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Why are you? So.
578 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
There is no current source here, so just a voltage sauce.
579 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we replaced with, uh, shops in so now.
580 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In mind N. D because a, and B is the point of view the eye you can see that. I.
581 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I view of the our.
582 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Resistance 17, so if we view from here.
583 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, I like you, you might do not want to withdraw, but I'd like to redraw it. So have a better view. So I'll read through it in this manner.
584 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Because this is just a wire, so I put it.
585 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, 1, 2.
586 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And, and we still here and the, I view.
587 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Of the, so if we view, uh, our eye from here.
588 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
What we can see is are 1 and half to.
589 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In parallel, right? How do I get up to add in parallel.
590 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Therefore, we can.
591 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
As the point of view is like, looking at.
592 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
As a result then it is.
593 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
What we call as a total from here is a by.
594 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Up to add 1 last half 2 because.
595 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You see the special formula for 2 resistors in parallel.
596 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And again, I emphasize special formula or 2 reasons this internal we'll come up in the.
597 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Victim exam in 1 hour 1 hour time. Okay.
598 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, if this is, uh, 3 and 6, this is 3 hours.
599 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And this is 6 months so I think.
600 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, you you know how to find.
601 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This too as a result. So now you, you have solved.
602 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, you have now, uh, update the value.
603 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Of our This is.
604 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, now we, we are going to, uh, find.
605 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, both or 8:30:so has been found.
606 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The next step is to find 8:7:or re, voltage 17.
607 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, to find a work test, you.
608 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You put back all the boxes sources, because previously, when you want to find the resistor.
609 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We remove all the voltage and current sources.
610 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But now we want to find the we, we put back all the voltage sources.
611 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Um, uh, but still, there are a note.
612 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
It's not yet. It's not yet. It's not yet, uh, return. We just, uh, put back the work of sauce.
613 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So when we put back the voltage source here, we got 3 orbs and 6. M. but that's why it's very important.
614 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To not lose track of a and B.
615 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Because that is our, I view, oh, I view a point of view.
616 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Now, this point of view.
617 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Between is the voltage.
618 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
It is is both stage, right? The voltage across this because this is the point of view.
619 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And as usual, I like to draw it redraw it.
620 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So this is not volts. Uh, this is 3.
621 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The quotes and this is 6 hours and, uh.
622 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The point of view, the view is between a, and B.
623 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And to get the R, the.
624 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And also the work is divider theory.
625 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Is this 1, but you are going to experience it in the victim the voltage divide the theory the voltage divided theory. So I hope you just now, you are.
626 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You finish successfully mention.
627 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The current divider theory and I, will you still.
628 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, you are well versed in both this divided query if we have 6.
629 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Those 3 ops here at 9 volts, the voltage divided theory states that are voltage.
630 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Plus is 6.
631 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Divided by 6+3xby 9 books.
632 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, now we have update.
633 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, previously we have to obtain.
634 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Our so last, but not least we re, draw it as a final answer.
635 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The is 6 books. Our revenue is 2.
636 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And now we put back our load.
637 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Please look back in a 2nd.
638 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And when we place the note back in a 2nd.
639 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We can easily find the current.
640 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The color flowing in the.
641 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, load resistance, because I hope.
642 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You are well versed by now that current is.
643 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Well, it's folks logged voltage.
644 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Over over the resistance.
645 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, so maybe the question will say, okay, now the R. L. is 1.
646 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Let's let's see, let's say.
647 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So I am, is a 6 volts divided by the total.
648 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Resistance 2 and 3 2+3 and 5.
649 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This is just example. So R. L. can be any value.
650 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But it's not easy to solve.
651 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Or the so just observed. Yeah.
652 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I think is our original question so we were asked to find.
653 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I L, if you were asked to find, I am, it's going to be.
654 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Maybe we can solve it, but.
655 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, is this is maybe a bit complicated.
656 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But, in other cases, with more, uh, combination of currents source, voltage source.
657 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Resistance in hybrid, serious parallel so it's going to be.
658 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, difficult so the covenant theory, makes it, like, summarize all of the elements in the blue box.
659 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To become, uh, or voltage 17.
660 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, and and and therefore you can solve.
661 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Whatever is required, because it's just a simple slow in this case.
662 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, now we have another example, and this is, is the.
663 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And the blue box, we have the 12 current sauce.
664 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Bones and 2 offs so.
665 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We are going to use the.
666 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So 1st of all, uh, we are.
667 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The answer is 6 months for the.
668 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Um, because find out that we need, we.
669 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We replaced, of course, the load is no more there. So the load is not part of the analysis.
670 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay to find the afternoon we then replace the current source with and.
671 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, 3rd, this current source is open secure. Of course, the, the are load is no matter, but.
672 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Bear in mind, where are the points? Where are the point? A, and point B.
673 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Does this is, uh, I view that we want to.
674 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Look at my view that you want to look at.
675 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, and so this is becoming open 2nd.
676 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So this means, I can I ask you.
677 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, because some of you will say, why is it not for us.
678 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Why is it not for us? Because I'm looking like this.
679 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But you have to look from the point of view from a.
680 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Between a, and P, so if you look from here, so that's why I like to redraw it if it.
681 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To avoid plus, this can be.
682 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Be drawn are the 2 OEMs.
683 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And for us, so we have to.
684 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To be safe, keep track of.
685 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
A, and B, or you can draw it up.
686 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
If I rewrote it, and if I look, uh, if I look from.
687 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I see that the resistor that I see from a is.
688 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To register in series, 2 and 4 2+4 is 6 hours. So we have solved.
689 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, that would so if you are.
690 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Just remind me remind me.
691 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To find we.
692 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Retain back we return back the.
693 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Removed previously, it was removed now 117 with.
694 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Put back the current sauce and but the other loads is still.
695 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
It's still removed, it's still removed.
696 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Um, but now the point a is still maintain, and we look.
697 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
From here. Okay. And this is something interesting.
698 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Something interesting here, because let's do it. Uh, let's do.
699 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, our, uh, redrawing it, uh, let me rejoin.
700 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Yeah, and this is the point, right? The point.
701 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, AV, something interesting.
702 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I hope you see that the carbon.
703 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The problem is moving here this is.
704 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Hanging right as if there's no use.
705 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Because no current, this is open.
706 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Here is, here is like, is hanging, so this resistor is of not relevance.
707 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Right. It's not relevant so as if, uh, it's nothing.
708 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The resistor does not exist, so it's.
709 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, just like this, or even if you want, you can just say.
710 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
It's nothing so now we.
711 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The point of view of a B, is these 2 points.
712 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So we want to find 8:17:or we want to find the voltage.
713 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
8 Avenue or the voltage.
714 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
By looking from a and B.
715 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And I think, uh, you, um.
716 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The whole pitch between a, and B.
717 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And this is 12.
718 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And this is phones.
719 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And, uh, soft transformation.
720 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Let me remember whether it's in the midterm exam.
721 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Soft transformation. No. So now, since you are here, I give you the tips.
722 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
What in the midterm exam is a resistance in parallel, uh, current divider, uh, nodal analysis. So.
723 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You there is no.
724 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Transformation question, but here in here.
725 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We can observe that this can be transformed 12 times for.
726 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Is, uh, 48 transformation.
727 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And in series is for forms.
728 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And do not forget always the.
729 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Between the point a, and we and we want the E voltage.
730 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, the voltage, uh, looking at this is 48 volts.
731 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Is 48 volts so the, the voltage across between 8.
732 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Is 48 volts so, this means 8 is 48 books uh, is 6 hours.
733 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And, uh, our 3 or our loads.
734 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Our load is 7 months so the last, only at the last moment.
735 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
That the 7 Ops will be.
736 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We will be put back in the 2nd.
737 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, so now it's easy because whatever you want to find.
738 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, is it the current going through the 3 now? It's easy.
739 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To file because everything is.
740 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In terms of and the, so you can.
741 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Let's see what the time I, it's, uh, onslaught the voltage divided by the total resistance.
742 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So that is we have learned so far is, uh, support position.
743 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This morning and 17.
744 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
That would mean Kingdom, so another.
745 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Interesting example, is the load there are node can be.
746 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
That'd be a new app.
747 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In this case, um.
748 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, in this case, uh, the upload.
749 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Is between this R4 resistance?
750 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Sometimes most, like, sometimes in here or here, but if the question mentioned this, this means this is the R low.
751 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, it's very, um, complicated.
752 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Because this is the voltage or the.
753 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Anything that we want to do, because it's not somewhere else. So we are going to use.
754 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, Evelyn.
755 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To summarize it to summarize to have only 1.
756 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, 1.
757 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
1 resistance.
758 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And between a, and B.
759 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, where do we have this summarization.
760 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
It's easy to find, uh, the color cause it's just, uh.
761 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
All slow. Okay so the 1st step.
762 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Is to find so this is our load so I will not.
763 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Between this point a, and we will be removed.
764 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
All in the analysis, except put back in the last, uh, steps as you remember in the last step then only we put back the outer loop.
765 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, to find the afternoon, if you remember, we will.
766 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, remove both data source and replace with a short.
767 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, keep track of a, and B, always.
768 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Because that is our point of view I look to the left or loop the director from the left, or right.
769 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
From the point of view, and here we can see the voltage sauce has been.
770 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Remove and replace with, uh, short circuit straight wire.
771 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
1, now, um, it's better to.
772 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We throw it and make.
773 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, this to the last.
774 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Plus it's all in parallel so whether you make a and B on the left or on here, no doesn't matter. So we make a.
775 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To add the 6 on here at the 6. Oh, yeah. Okay. Okay.
776 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And again, there is something interesting, uh, something.
777 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Interesting here there are 2 methods. So here.
778 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This is a 0 cost.
779 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Is 0 homes right? And this is 2 homes, but as a whole.
780 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
These 2 are in parallel back.
781 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
These 2 in parallel so you use the spectrum formula for to resistance in parallel 0 multiplied by 2 0.
782 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And 0+2 and of course 0.
783 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
0, 0.
784 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So 0, so this 2.
785 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, these 2 is just, uh, this to overall is just a short circuit wire of.
786 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So this is the homes.
787 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And this is our, um, cause we have, we brought it here. So, um.
788 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This, uh, this, this is 6 hours.
789 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And this is our point of view, uh, a, and B.
790 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But, of course, uh, we probably need is better because.
791 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
What s, W why not draw it here?
792 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Why not, uh, drawing here so we can have a better view.
793 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, so what I did is step by step here is zeros and 2 offs in parallel.
794 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
If you were at 2:00:00, always just a strict wire.
795 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And 4 hours is here. So why not throw it like this?
796 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And our point of view is here.
797 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And this point of view, when we look at this, we are looking at, uh, 6 and 4 in parallel. So we do another.
798 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Resistors in parallel 6 multiplied by for.
799 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
6+4 in order.
800 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We got to get our.
801 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Um, W, our our.
802 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, in order to get our our mm, hmm.
803 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we have obtained, uh, W, we have to obtain the now, our next task is to part the.
804 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The E. W. so if it means.
805 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We, uh, we are.
806 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The is still there with no, our load. The armor is still a removed.
807 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
1st, the is the point of view.
808 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And since we want to find, we put back.
809 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We'll take sauce now.
810 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
If we have a look.
811 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
From this point of view, um.
812 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, it is better to, uh, to draw it.
813 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, so, at this point of view.
814 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, I will do it, uh, from here to here.
815 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And here I redraw it.
816 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Close 6 hours.
817 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
For all 6 books and remember see the a.
818 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Is here and the is here so therefore.
819 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The a, uh, is here.
820 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And the B, so this is a.
821 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The is here and this point of view.
822 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And so this is.
823 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
It votes in the opposite priority.
824 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And we don't care so much about.
825 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But the rest, but about is too old, because we are carrying more about.
826 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The part of you between a, and B.
827 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we can see that again.
828 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, in parallel parallel theory that you are willing to experience.
829 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, in 1, August time, so this is it goes, right?
830 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This is 8 books. Okay this is at volts.
831 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This must be 8 volts.
832 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So this is this 8 volts.
833 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, I hope you can see that. This is a voltage divider room.
834 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To get the voltage across this 6. Oh register.
835 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And that will be your E governance that will be your E. W.
836 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, so.
837 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
At the end.
838 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We find our we find our resist.
839 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And the will be the load visitor out for will be placed back in the circuit in the, in the 2nd.
840 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Will be placed by in the 2nd, so this challenge example I will not, uh, I will not.
841 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Um, um.
842 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I will not go through this is.
843 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
For your for your analysis at home.
844 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, so I will, this is another example of.
845 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, E, and.
846 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But, um, you go through.
847 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But is good practice for your midterm exam in 30 minutes.
848 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, I will, you don't need to analyze this.
849 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But I want you to, uh, to, to, to tell me.
850 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
What is so what is our 3.
851 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In parallel to to.
852 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
See, what is in parallel to to.
853 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
What is in parallel to? We have our 3.
854 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And he's out 2 so what is our total.
855 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Um, which juries are using, which theory should use if 2 registers in parallel.
856 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To resistance in parallel how 1, uh, that 1 is the long formula.
857 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
What is this? Okay.
858 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
That's good. So with so if we know our.
859 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
2 is.
860 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, let's fine. Um.
861 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, are 3 in parallel to have to.
862 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
3, uh.
863 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
All 3 mean, the.
864 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
I don't go to detail the steps because going to book, but I just want to.
865 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Practice with you, uh, our 3 in parallel to have to.
866 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
All right, so our 3 in parallel to 2.
867 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And is 2.4kilohertz.
868 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, if as a whole is 2 point.
869 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
For so these 2.
870 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Will be in parallel to.
871 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, these 2 to reduce the internal.
872 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, um, yes, please.
873 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Can I ask you so now you have found 3.
874 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The lady the lady.
875 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, now, I have you have sent, uh, are 3 in parallel to add 2 is the special formula, right?
876 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, now we have found it S2.4 kilohertz.
877 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, these 2.4kilohertz.
878 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, in parallel to so what is.
879 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
As a formula, what do you apply?
880 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Then the same, so, what, uh, what is the value.
881 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
No, it's not. The question is not said yeah, so what's the value.
882 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
What what's I wonder you and then.
883 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Okay, that's.
884 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
That's a good answer. So this, uh.
885 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Select the, the, for the next question.
886 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The next question.
887 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
In we have found the answer, but it's also in parallel to.
888 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Add 1, so.
889 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
That is the answer 0.6kilowatts.
890 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, but a full analysis, uh, you can do it at home.
891 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And I'm not go into the, uh, detail for a full analysis.
892 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So the answer just now is 0.6kilograms.
893 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we have learned, um.
894 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We have learned, uh.
895 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
17 is.
896 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This and the, and resistance.
897 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And that the point between the points.
898 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And that is the, the road.
899 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
There are the resistance, so this is, uh.
900 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, the okay.
901 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
But, uh, we can also.
902 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, what we call a knock knock then.
903 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Equivalent Euro, not term instead of the voltage.
904 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
17 and resistor February in series. Uh, it is our M, the objective is.
905 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The current source and the resistance.
906 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, in parallel, so there are symbol and we've not done. I end.
907 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And R. M. okay. So 1 way is to.
908 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
To find, uh, and.
909 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
If the questions say, find the doctor for a 2nd, you can just.
910 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You can just convert it once you've got.
911 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Uh, and.
912 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You can forward to I am not done.
913 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
And our resistance Norton.
914 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Observe that the resistor long term is equals to.
915 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
The value to resist the right.
916 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, we, uh, today we have covered support position and governing equivalent citizens.
917 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, hopefully, uh.
918 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
We have also revision. Yes. Now, uh, for current.
919 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
This is in parallel voltage divider set up and so forth.
920 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
So, I will take a few minutes breaks and I will give.
921 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
Total analysis revision because.
922 "Mohd Fareq Abd Malek" (3159643136)
You request, uh, no, the analysis so.